In this tutorial, we will run the behavior tree using C ++ and also look at how to make
smooth turns of our NPC character when his motion vector changes.
In the AICharacter class, add a forward declaration for the behavior tree. The C ++ class is called UBehaviorTree.
And in the public section, we will create a property in which we will set the asset for the behavior tree in the editor.
This property can be done both in the controller and in the character. From an architectural point of view, it is more logical
to do it in a character, because the controller can take possession of another character, which has its own
logic of behavior. Specifically, in our case, there is no difference, because the behavior of
all NPCs will be the same. Let's go to the controller class. We will launch the behavior tree
not on the BeginPlay as we did in the blueprint, but when the OnPossess function is called.
That is, when we got control of the pawn. This function can be called several
times during the game. The controller can change the pawn. We covered this feature in the very
first chapter of our course. We create the body of the OnPossess function in the controller's .cpp file.
We include the AICharacter header file.
We need to get the behavior of the tree asset, so we create a local variable STUCharacter
and cast the pawn, which is passed in the OnPossess function to the AICharacter class.
If the pointer is not nullptr
we can start the behavior tree. We have already used this AI controller feature in blueprints.
The function is called RunBehaviorTree and takes a pointer to a behavior tree as a parameter.
We transfer our property and AICharacter there.
Let's run editor. We have a compilation error.
I forgot one letter s in the name of the OnPossess function.
Let's compile again.
Open up the blueprint of the controller. Let's remove the launch of the behavior tree in the blueprint. Compile. Open the asset AI of the character.
And in the property behavior tree, we indicate our tree.
We launch the project.
The AI ​​character moves randomly around the scene. If you look closely at how the rotation
changes depending on the motion vector, it looks quite
unpleasant, because the character instantly changes orientation in space. This can be tweaked.
Open up the character's blueprint and select the character movement component.
Find the category rotation settings. Property - use controller desire rotation will interpolate on tick the rotation of the
character to the rotation of the controller. Also in the description it says that use controller rotation yaw needs
to be removed from the character settings. Let's set this property to true - click on the checkbox.
The rotation rate property is responsible for the rate of interpolation. I have selected in advance the value at which this
interpolation looks quite adequate. The value is 200. And in the main character settings,
you must set the property use controller rotation yaw to false. We launch the project and see how our character is now moving.
The rotation does not occur instantly, but takes some time, which looks more natural.
And the last thing in this tutorial: I transferred the settings that we
just set in C ++, that is, use controller rotation yaw is false.
And two settings for the character movement component: use controller desire rotation = true
and RoatationRate assign the vector (0, 200, 0). Don't forget about the header file for the character movement component.